<img align = "right" src="bats.png" style="margin-left:20px" width="400px" />


#### *Please see the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nation's [page](http://www.fao.org/ecosystem-services-biodiversity/background/en/) on Ecosystem services for more detailed definitions of each category.*

#### <span style="color:#016F46"><b>Food</b></span>

Ecosystems provide the conditions for growing food. Food comes
principally from managed agro-ecosystems, but marine and freshwater
systems or forests also provide food for human consumption. Wild foods
from forests are often not considered despite the benefits they provide.

#### <span style="color:#016F46"><b> Clean Water</b></span>

Ecosystems play a vital role in the global hydrological cycle, as they
regulate the flow and purification of water. Vegetation and forests
influence the quantity of water available locally.

#### <span style="color:#016F46"><b>Raw Materials</b></span>

Ecosystems provide a great diversity of materials for construction and
fuel, including wood, biofuels and plant oils that are directly derived
from wild and cultivated plant species.

#### <span style="color:#016F46"><b>Genetic material</b></span>

?????

#### <span style="color:#016F46"><b>Medical materials</b></span>

Ecosystems and biodiversity provide many plants used as traditional medicines as well as raw materials used by pharmaceutical industry. All ecosystems are a potential source of medicinal resources that have not yet been discovered. Conserving these resources because there is a possible, but unknown potential use is called "option value."

#### <span style="color:#016F46"><b>Clean Air</b></span>

The trees and soils in forests can actively remove pollutants from the air and provide air purification services both locally and globally. 

#### <span style="color:#016F46"><b>Climate (Carbon Sequestration)</b></span>

Ecosystems regulate the global climate by storing and sequestering
#016F46house gases. As trees and plants grow, they remove carbon dioxide
from the atmosphere and effectively lock it away in their tissues. In
this way forest ecosystems are carbon stores. Biodiversity also plays an
important role by improving the capacity of ecosystems to adapt to the
effects of climate change.

#### <span style="color:#016F46"><b>Protection Against Extreme Events</b></span>

Extreme weather events or natural hazards include floods, storms, tsunamis, avalanches and landslides. Ecosystems and living organisms create buffers against natural disasters, thereby preventing possible damage. For example, wetlands can soak up flood water whilst trees can stabilize slopes. Coral reefs and mangroves help protect coastlines from storm damage.

#### <span style="color:#016F46"><b>Water Flow</b></span>

Forests influence the amount of water available and the timing of water delivery through a combination of interception, transpiration, evaporation, evapotranspiration and infiltration. 

#### <span style="color:#016F46"><b>Waste Removal</b></span>

Ecosystems such as wetlands filter both human and animal waste and act
as a natural buffer to the surrounding environment. Most waste is broken
down the through the biological activity of microorganisms in the soil. Through this process, pathogens (disease-causing microbes) are eliminated and pollution is reduced.

#### <span style="color:#016F46"><b>Erosion Control</b></span>

Soil erosion is a key factor in the process of land degradation and
desertification. Vegetation cover provides a vital regulating service by
preventing soil erosion.

#### <span style="color:#016F46"><b>Soil Fertility</b></span>

Soil fertility is essential for plant growth and agriculture.  Well
functioning ecosystems supply the soil with nutrients required to
support plant growth.

#### <span style="color:#016F46"><b>Pollination</b></span>

Insects and wind pollinate plants and trees which is essential for the
development of fruits, vegetables and seeds. Animal pollination is an
ecosystem service mainly provided by insects but also by some birds and
bats. Some 87 out of the 115 leading global food crops depend upon
animal pollination including important cash crops such as cocoa and
coffee (Klein et al. 2007).

#### <span style="color:#016F46"><b>Disease Regulation</b></span>

Ecosystems are important for regulating pests and vector borne diseases
that attack plants, animals and people. Ecosystems regulate pests and
diseases through the activities of predators and parasites. Birds, bats,
flies, wasps, frogs and fungi all act as natural controls.

#### <span style="color:#016F46"><b>Nursery Habitat</b></span>

Habitats provide everything that an individual plant or animal needs to
survive: food; water; and shelter. Each ecosystem has different
characteristics that can be essential for a species’ lifecycle. Migratory
species including birds, fish, mammals and insects all depend upon
different ecosystems during their movements.

<img align = "left" src="monkey.png" style="margin-left:20px" width="400px" />

#### <span style="color:#016F46"><b>Gene pool</b></span>

Genetic diversity is the variety of genes between and within species
populations. Genetic diversity distinguishes different breeds or races
from each other thus providing the basis for locally well-adapted
cultivators and a gene pool for further developing commercial crops and
livestock. Some habitats have an exceptionally high number of species
which makes them more genetically diverse than others and are known as
‘biodiversity hotspots’.

#### <span style="color:#016F46"><b>Recreation activities</b></span>

Ecosystems are important for recreation and mental and physical health. Walking and playing sports in
green space is not only a good form of physical exercise but also lets
people relax. The role that green space plays in maintaining mental and
physical health is increasingly being recognized, despite difficulties
of measurement.

Ecosystems and biodiversity play an important role for many kinds of
tourism which in turn provides considerable economic benefits and is a
vital source of income for many countries. In 2008 combined global earnings from
tourism were 944 billion uSD. Cultural tourism and eco-tourism can also
educate people about the importance of biological diversity.
